plugins/fda-predicate-assistant/commands/analyze.md, before:

---
description: Analyze FDA data from any pipeline stage — extraction results, download metadata, predicate relationships, or device lookups
allowed-tools: Read, Glob, Grep, Bash
argument-hint: "[file-path | device-name | product-code | K-number]"
---

# FDA Multi-Source Data Analysis

You are analyzing FDA 510(k) data from across the full pipeline. Multiple data sources may be available — adapt your analysis to whatever exists.

## Data Source Locations

| File | Location | Description |
|------|----------|-------------|
| `510k_download.csv` | `/mnt/c/510k/Python/510kBF/` | 510kBF metadata (24 cols: KNUMBER, APPLICANT, DECISIONDATE, PRODUCTCODE, TYPE, STATEORSUMM, REVIEWADVISECOMM, THIRDPARTY, EXPEDITEDREVIEW, etc.) |
| `Applicant_ProductCode_Tables.xlsx` | `/mnt/c/510k/Python/510kBF/` | Analytics workbook (3 sheets: Applicant, ProductCode, Full data) |
| `merged_data.csv` | `/mnt/c/510k/Python/510kBF/` | K-number + up to 6 predicates (7 cols) |
| `output.csv` | `/mnt/c/510k/Python/PredicateExtraction/` | Extraction results: K-number, ProductCode, Predicate1..PredicateN |
| `supplement.csv` | `/mnt/c/510k/Python/PredicateExtraction/` | Devices with supplement suffixes |
| `pdf_data.json` | `/mnt/c/510k/Python/PredicateExtraction/` | Cached PDF text keyed by filename |
| `error_log.txt` | `/mnt/c/510k/Python/PredicateExtraction/` | Failed PDFs |
| `pmn*.txt` | `/mnt/c/510k/Python/PredicateExtraction/` or `fda_data/` | FDA 510(k) database flat files |
| `foiaclass.txt` | `/mnt/c/510k/Python/510kBF/fda_data/` | FDA device classification data |

**Note:** FDA database files may also be in configurable `--data-dir` locations. Check `~/.claude/fda-predicate-assistant.local.md` for configured `data_dir` path.

## Parse Arguments

Determine the analysis mode from `$ARGUMENTS`:

1. **File path** (contains `/` or `.csv` or `.json`) → Analyze that specific file
2. **K-number** (matches `K\d{6}`) → Look up that device across all sources
3. **Product code** (3 uppercase letters like `KGN`) → Filter all data by that code
4. **Device/company name** (text string) → Search all data sources for matches
5. **No arguments** → Discover all available data and provide a comprehensive overview

## Step 1: Discover Available Data

Always start by checking which data files exist:

```bash
ls -la /mnt/c/510k/Python/510kBF/510k_download.csv /mnt/c/510k/Python/510kBF/merged_data.csv /mnt/c/510k/Python/PredicateExtraction/output.csv /mnt/c/510k/Python/PredicateExtraction/supplement.csv /mnt/c/510k/Python/PredicateExtraction/pdf_data.json /mnt/c/510k/Python/PredicateExtraction/error_log.txt 2>/dev/null
```

Report to the user which sources are available before proceeding.

## Step 2: Analyze Based on Available Sources

### If `510k_download.csv` exists → Metadata Analysis
- Total records and date range
- Applicant distribution (top companies by submission count)
- Product code distribution
- Advisory committee breakdown
- Decision code summary (SESE, SEKN, etc.)
- Review time statistics (mean, median, min, max)
- Third-party review usage
- Expedited review usage
- Statement vs Summary distribution

### If `output.csv` exists → Predicate Analysis
- Total submissions analyzed and unique predicates found
- Average predicates per submission
- Most frequently cited predicate devices (predicate hubs)
- Predicate chains (A→B→C relationships)
- Submissions with high predicate counts (>10)
- Submissions with zero predicates (may need review)
- Product code clustering
- Document type breakdown (Statement vs Summary)

### If both `510k_download.csv` AND `output.csv` exist → Cross-Reference Analysis
- Match predicates to their metadata (applicant, date, product code)
- Identify predicate age (how old are the cited predicates?)
- Cross-validate product codes between sources
- Find devices in download list that are also cited as predicates
- Review time correlation with predicate count

### If `merged_data.csv` exists → Predicate Relationship Analysis
- Direct predicate mapping (K-number → up to 6 predicates)
- Build predicate chains across generations
- Identify most-cited predicate hubs

### If `pdf_data.json` exists → Text Availability Report
- How many PDFs have cached text
- Text extraction coverage percentage
- Can offer deep-dive into specific device's PDF text

### If `supplement.csv` exists → Supplement Analysis
- Count of supplement devices
- Which base devices have supplements
- Supplement numbering patterns

## Step 3: Targeted Lookups

If the user provided a specific device, product code, or company name:

1. Search ALL available data sources for matches
2. Aggregate findings into a single device profile
3. Show: metadata, predicates, related devices, PDF text availability
4. For company names: show all their submissions and common predicates

## Output Format

Provide a structured report:
1. **Data Sources Found** — What files are available and their freshness
2. **Executive Summary** — Key findings in 2-3 sentences
3. **Statistics** — Tables with counts and percentages
4. **Notable Patterns** — Interesting relationships discovered
5. **Issues Found** — Problems requiring attention (OCR errors, missing data, zero-predicate submissions)
6. **Recommendations** — Actionable next steps

## Tips

- Use `wc -l` for quick row counts on large CSV files
- Use `head -1` to read column headers before parsing
- For large files, use Grep to search rather than reading the whole file
- Cross-reference K-numbers between sources to build complete device profiles

Commit message:

Add project-based data management to all commands

plugins/fda-predicate-assistant/commands/analyze.md, after:

---
description: Analyze FDA data from any pipeline stage — extraction results, download metadata, predicate relationships, or device lookups
allowed-tools: Read, Glob, Grep, Bash
argument-hint: "[--project NAME | file-path | product-code | K-number]"
---

# FDA Multi-Source Data Analysis

You are analyzing FDA 510(k) data from across the full pipeline. Multiple data sources may be available — adapt your analysis to whatever exists.

## Data Source Locations

| File | Location | Description |
|------|----------|-------------|
| `510k_download.csv` | `/mnt/c/510k/Python/510kBF/` | 510kBF metadata (24 cols: KNUMBER, APPLICANT, DECISIONDATE, PRODUCTCODE, TYPE, STATEORSUMM, REVIEWADVISECOMM, THIRDPARTY, EXPEDITEDREVIEW, etc.) |
| `Applicant_ProductCode_Tables.xlsx` | `/mnt/c/510k/Python/510kBF/` | Analytics workbook (3 sheets: Applicant, ProductCode, Full data) |
| `merged_data.csv` | `/mnt/c/510k/Python/510kBF/` | K-number + up to 6 predicates (7 cols) |
| `output.csv` | `/mnt/c/510k/Python/PredicateExtraction/` | Extraction results: K-number, ProductCode, Predicate1..PredicateN |
| `supplement.csv` | `/mnt/c/510k/Python/PredicateExtraction/` | Devices with supplement suffixes |
| `pdf_data.json` | `/mnt/c/510k/Python/PredicateExtraction/` | Cached PDF text keyed by filename |
| `error_log.txt` | `/mnt/c/510k/Python/PredicateExtraction/` | Failed PDFs |
| `pmn*.txt` | `/mnt/c/510k/Python/PredicateExtraction/` or `fda_data/` | FDA 510(k) database flat files |
| `foiaclass.txt` | `/mnt/c/510k/Python/510kBF/fda_data/` | FDA device classification data |

**Note:** FDA database files may also be in configurable `--data-dir` locations. Check `~/.claude/fda-predicate-assistant.local.md` for configured paths.

## Project Support

If `--project NAME` is provided, look for data in the project folder first:

```bash
PROJECTS_DIR="/mnt/c/510k/Python/510k_projects"  # or from settings
ls "$PROJECTS_DIR/$PROJECT_NAME/" 2>/dev/null
cat "$PROJECTS_DIR/$PROJECT_NAME/query.json" 2>/dev/null
```

When a project is specified, use its data files (510k_download.csv, output.csv, pdf_data.json, etc.) instead of the legacy global locations. Also read `query.json` to understand the query context.

If no project is specified, fall back to legacy locations.

## Parse Arguments

Determine the analysis mode from `$ARGUMENTS`:

1. **File path** (contains `/` or `.csv` or `.json`) → Analyze that specific file
2. **K-number** (matches `K\d{6}`) → Look up that device across all sources
3. **Product code** (3 uppercase letters like `KGN`) → Filter all data by that code
4. **Device/company name** (text string) → Search all data sources for matches
5. **No arguments** → Discover all available data and provide a comprehensive overview

## Step 1: Discover Available Data

Always start by checking which data files exist:

```bash
ls -la /mnt/c/510k/Python/510kBF/510k_download.csv /mnt/c/510k/Python/510kBF/merged_data.csv /mnt/c/510k/Python/PredicateExtraction/output.csv /mnt/c/510k/Python/PredicateExtraction/supplement.csv /mnt/c/510k/Python/PredicateExtraction/pdf_data.json /mnt/c/510k/Python/PredicateExtraction/error_log.txt 2>/dev/null
```

Report to the user which sources are available before proceeding.

## Step 2: Analyze Based on Available Sources

### If `510k_download.csv` exists → Metadata Analysis
- Total records and date range
- Applicant distribution (top companies by submission count)
- Product code distribution
- Advisory committee breakdown
- Decision code summary (SESE, SEKN, etc.)
- Review time statistics (mean, median, min, max)
- Third-party review usage
- Expedited review usage
- Statement vs Summary distribution

### If `output.csv` exists → Predicate Analysis
- Total submissions analyzed and unique predicates found
- Average predicates per submission
- Most frequently cited predicate devices (predicate hubs)
- Predicate chains (A→B→C relationships)
- Submissions with high predicate counts (>10)
- Submissions with zero predicates (may need review)
- Product code clustering
- Document type breakdown (Statement vs Summary)

### If both `510k_download.csv` AND `output.csv` exist → Cross-Reference Analysis
- Match predicates to their metadata (applicant, date, product code)
- Identify predicate age (how old are the cited predicates?)
- Cross-validate product codes between sources
- Find devices in download list that are also cited as predicates
- Review time correlation with predicate count

### If `merged_data.csv` exists → Predicate Relationship Analysis
- Direct predicate mapping (K-number → up to 6 predicates)
- Build predicate chains across generations
- Identify most-cited predicate hubs

### If `pdf_data.json` exists → Text Availability Report
- How many PDFs have cached text
- Text extraction coverage percentage
- Can offer deep-dive into specific device's PDF text

### If `supplement.csv` exists → Supplement Analysis
- Count of supplement devices
- Which base devices have supplements
- Supplement numbering patterns

## Step 3: Targeted Lookups

If the user provided a specific device, product code, or company name:

1. Search ALL available data sources for matches
2. Aggregate findings into a single device profile
3. Show: metadata, predicates, related devices, PDF text availability
4. For company names: show all their submissions and common predicates

## Output Format

Provide a structured report:
1. **Data Sources Found** — What files are available and their freshness
2. **Executive Summary** — Key findings in 2-3 sentences
3. **Statistics** — Tables with counts and percentages
4. **Notable Patterns** — Interesting relationships discovered
5. **Issues Found** — Problems requiring attention (OCR errors, missing data, zero-predicate submissions)
6. **Recommendations** — Actionable next steps

## Tips

- Use `wc -l` for quick row counts on large CSV files
- Use `head -1` to read column headers before parsing
- For large files, use Grep to search rather than reading the whole file
- Cross-reference K-numbers between sources to build complete device profiles
